{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx576\adjustright \b\i\f1\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\fs28\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 header;}{
\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 footer;}{\*\cs17 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1\listsimple
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}}{\listname ;}\listid-2}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }}\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }}\ls2}}{\info{\title CISC Emergency Services E9-1-1 Sub-Group Contribution}{\author City of Calgary}
{\operator City of Calgary}{\creatim\yr1999\mo5\dy12\hr12\min53}{\revtim\yr1999\mo5\dy12\hr12\min53}{\printim\yr1998\mo11\dy19\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords598}{\nofchars3195}{\*\company The City of Calgary}{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern89}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain 
\s15\qc\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4590\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \cgrid {\b 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s3\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\fs28\ul\cgrid {
CISC Emergency Services E9-1-1 Sub-Group Contribution
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b\ul 
\par 
\par }{\b Source:\tab }{Chris Kellett \endash  Edmonton Police Service
\par \tab \tab 9620 \endash  103A Avenue,
\par \tab \tab Edmonton, Alberta
\par \tab \tab (780) 421-3516
\par 
\par }{\b Date:\tab \tab }{May 11, 1999
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b TIF:\tab \tab ESTF021}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\fi-1440\li1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b TITLE:\tab Emergency Call Completion by a Competitive Operator Services Provider
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\cgrid {DESCRIPTION
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {To identify and/or develop the means for a competitive operator services provider (OSP) to fulfill the obligation specified at item 2 of consensus resolution ESRE008A, nam
ely to complete zero dialed emergency calls in 9-1-1 areas to the appropriate PSAP for the caller\rquote s NPA NXX.}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b 
\par 
\par NOTICE}{
\par 
\par This contribution provides the Edmonton Police Service\rquote s view on the Competitive Pay Telephone Service Provider (CPTSP) handling of 0-dialed emergency calls, by way of a Competitive Operator Services Provider (OSP).  
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\cgrid {COMMENTS
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par Contributions from Stentor (ESTF020-C03C) on April 22, CanopCo Incorporated on May 5, and the Ontario 9-1-1 Advisory Board (OAB) on May 10 (re-send) have been reviewed prior to providing these comments.
\par 
\par }{\b Firstly, it must be clearly stated that the use of administrative seven-digit access to PSAPs is not 9-1-1.  Nor is it the proper way to route emergency calls.
\par }{
\par In the early days of new competitive providers (wireline and wireless) this type of access was permitted by PSAPs to provide a means of routing the voice portion only of an emergency call.  This was provided on a \lquote temporary basis only\rquote 
, for reasons noted later it cannot be utilized as a solution (especially on a national basis).
\par 
\par During the past 18 months trunk-side interconnection tariffs have been put in to place for both CLECs and Wireless Service Providers (WSP) to facilitate proper 9-1-1 interconnection to existing ILEC Provincial platforms.
\par 
\par As clearly detailed in section 6.01 of the Stentor contribution, OSP\rquote s must be capable of passing the ori
ginal ANI of the caller back to the applicable 9-1-1 Selective Router.  As well, standard E9-1-1 call control features must be supported (where technically feasible) i.e. Ringback, Calling Party Hold, Forced Disconnect.  Simply stated, this is 9-1-1, and 
it must be the end result of any agreement or tariff arising from this TIF.  This position is strongly supported by the OAB and by the Edmonton Police Service, in this submission.
\par 
\par The \lquote proposed action\rquote  of PSAPs providing coverage maps and seven digit administrative numbers is not a solution, since it is not 9-1-1.  As stated earlier, this has been utilized in the past as a short-term stop gap measure, until }{\b 
proper}{ interconnection is put it to place.  Normally, these numbers are utilized for occasional PSAP 
to PSAP interaction, and are provisioned for very little traffic.  Typically, they do not support any call control features; do not meet P.001 grade of service; provide no assistance in terms of the proper routing of calls to secondary PSAPs; have no over
flow provisions; and have been know to fail or be temporarily out of service with no indication that they are not working.  PSAPs would be put in a very litigious position if they agreed to take this \lquote proposed action\rquote .
\par 
\par Proper 9-1-1 interconnection can be achieved by either installing a DS0 trunk from the OSP to the applicable provincial 9-1-1 tandem(s), or contracting OSP\rquote 
s in the applicable serving area (i.e. Calgary operators for dial-0 emergencies in Calgary PSAP territory). Ensuring, where technically feasible, that originating ANI and standard call control features are supported.
\par 
\par PSAPs should strongly oppose any action that would see us in a position of being responsible for providing primary PSAP boundaries and administrative 7-digit numbers to 33 CPT
SP (and growing).  What happens when boundary or a phone number changes and/or calls get a busy signal, the PSAPs are liable; and worst of all the caller does not get fast and effective emergency assistance.
\par 
\par }}